# Competency - Fire Triaging<br />Be part of the monitoring team that triages production emergencies.<br /><br />This competency requires:<br />* Good debugging and prioritization skills<br />* A strong desire to have a healthy, well monitored, easy to debug system<br />* A strong understanding of the infrastructure and data paths within<br />* A good understanding of where to find all different types of logs within the system<br />* Work outside of normal office hours (as such it comes with a increase in base pay)<br />* A data/cell connection (as such we cover, within reason, phone plans) <br /><br />Sub-Competencies:<br />* linux/bash<br />* Kubedash<br />How do you prove it?<br />Alerting Knowledge<br />You have a good understanding of (and can discuss):<br />* alerting systems for both products (SWU and DYS).<br />* different categories of alerts.<br />* differences in categorizations for each product<br />Debugging/Tracing<br />Given very little data, you have a good priority of where/what details to get (and how).<br />You can have an egoless discussion about the state of infrastructure and code.<br />You understand the types of errors that could occur, given symptoms, and could give likelihoods on them, along with how to prove/disprove each theory.<br />You are able to view system resource usage of each heroku dyno in Sendwithus<br />Prioritization<br />You can prioritize between different types of bugs, given very little data on the bugs.<br />You can find out more about the bugs through various monitoring and debugging techniques.<br />You can delegate, and know who to delegate too.<br />Tooling<br />You know the reason for, and how to use: <br /><br />Sendwithus:<br />* OpsGenie<br />* Sentry<br />* Papertrail<br />* Librato<br />* NewRelic<br />* Heroku<br /><br />Dyspatch:<br />* OpsGenie<br />* Sentry<br />* Datadog<br />* Cloudwatch Logs<br />Training<br />You have shadowed 2 fire duty rotations.<br />You have been on 1 fire duty rotation solo.<br />You have confidence, your managers confidence, and the fire lead?s confidence to be on rotation<br />John Filter<br />The fire duty lead (John) has signed off on your ability to do fire duty.<br /><br />How do you improve it?<br />Read the wiki doc about fire handling: https://github.com/techdroplabs/wiki-sourcery/blob/master/procedures/fires/fire-handling.md<br />You need to be able to identify alerts and figure out who to wake up: https://github.com/techdroplabs/wiki-sourcery/blob/master/procedures/fires/escalation.md<br /><br />