Competency - Kubernetes<br />All of our Dyspatch system is deployed in kubernetes.  <br />Kubernetes (commonly referred to as K8s) is an open-source system for automating deployment, scaling and management of containerized applications that was originally designed by Google and donated to the Cloud Native Computing Foundation. It aims to provide a "platform for automating deployment, scaling, and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts".It supports a range of container tools, including Docker<br />Wikipedia: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kubernetes <br />Home: https://kubernetes.io/ <br />How do you prove it?<br />You can explain what docker is good for and how it operates in relation to a k8s cluster.<br />You can build all the yaml files for a new service and deploy it into production.<br />You can explain what each of the parts of the yaml represent and common pitfalls of using them and how they relate to scale and reliability.<br />How do you improve it?<br />Tinker locally with minikube, to gain an understanding of the API https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube<br /><br />nice little script for tailing multiple pods in k8s https://github.com/johanhaleby/kubetail <br /><br />Competency - Kubernetes - Advanced<br />Have achieved all the things for the basic competency and additionally can administer K8s security, monitoring, scale and help with advanced deployment at scale issues.<br />How do you prove it?<br />You understand how a build pipeline for a system running on k8s interacts with registries and k8s.<br /><br />How do you improve it?<br /><br /><br /><br /><br />