competencies/db-redshift.md, before:

# Competency - Redshift

Amazon Redshift is a fully managed, petabyte-scale data warehouse service in the cloud.

[https://aws.amazon.com/redshift]()

## How do you prove it?

- You know the differences between columnar and row-wise storage and the use cases for each
- You know what leader nodes, compute nodes, and slices are
- You understand how to optimize table design and query performance with sort keys, distribution styles, and compression
- You know what the COPY command is and why it should generally be used to load data
- You can read an EXPLAIN and evaluate query performance with it
- You know what a materialized view is and when to use one
- You can use the Redshift dashboard to do cluster management and run and analyze queries
- Create some prototype tables, load data into them, and query it

## How do you improve it?

- [System and architecture overview](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/dg/c_redshift_system_overview.html)
- [Best practices](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/dg/best-practices.html)
- [Developer guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/dg/welcome.html)
- [Dashboard](https://console.aws.amazon.com/redshiftv2/home?region=us-east-1#dashboard)

Commit message:

Split DB & Athena competencies into 2 levels (#108)
* Initial recompile .md to .html

* Fix confusing ordering by keeping "N of" at bottom

Without this it looks like the 2 of Language list contains several
non-lang competencies.

* Split database competencies into 2 levels

* Move writing competencies competency to dev 3

* Add how do you improve it section to 2nd levels

* Reorder d2 skills & add level to athena competency

* Add Athena competency content & split into 2 lvls

competencies/db-redshift.md, after:

# Competency - DB Redshift Level 1
[Amazon Redshift](https://aws.amazon.com/redshift) is a fully managed, petabyte-scale data warehouse service in the cloud.

## How do you prove it?
- You know the differences between columnar and row-wise storage and the use cases for each.
- You know what a view is and when to use one.
- You know what a materialized view is and when to use one.
- You can create some prototype tables, add data into, and query them.

## How do you improve it?
- [System and architecture overview](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/dg/c_redshift_system_overview.html)
- [Best practices](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/dg/best-practices.html)
- [Developer guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/dg/welcome.html)
- [Dashboard](https://console.aws.amazon.com/redshiftv2/home?region=us-east-1#dashboard)

# Competency - DB Redshift Level 2

## How do you prove it?
- You know what leader nodes, compute nodes, and slices are.
- You know what the COPY command is and why it should generally be used to load data.
- You can read an EXPLAIN and evaluate query performance with it.
- You understand how to optimize table design and query performance with sort keys, distribution styles, and compression.
- You can use the Redshift dashboard to do cluster management and run and analyze queries.

## How do you improve it?
