competencies/git.md, before:

# Competency - Git

Git is a free and open source distributed version control system designed to handle everything from small to very large projects with speed and efficiency.

## How do you prove it?

You can clone a repo, create a branch, checkout a branch, handle merge conflicts, squash, and push commits.

Can verbally explain Git to someone else and help them learn the Git processes.

You can explain what HEAD, remote, and tags are.

You can explain the difference between the working and staged environments.

You can explain what stashing is and when you should use it. 

You can navigate a Git log and know how to reset to a hash.

Can safely and securely use Git.

Knows the difference between squashing and merging.

Write well formatted and descriptive commit messages.

## How do you improve it?

Read the Git manual - [https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2)

Memorize the basic set of commands - [https://www.git-tower.com/blog/git-cheat-sheet/](https://www.git-tower.com/blog/git-cheat-sheet/)

Git Extras for common use-cases - [https://github.com/tj/git-extras](https://github.com/tj/git-extras)

Read [How to Write a Git Commit Message](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/)

Conventional Commits - [https://www.conventionalcommits.org/](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/)

Bookmark - [https://ohshitgit.com/](https://ohshitgit.com/)

# Competency - Git - Level 2

Have achieved all the things for the basic competency, are capable of solving advanced Git issues.

## How do you prove it?

People come to you and say things like, "I did this merge and now I'm in a tangle of branches and somebody did a force push and now I'm stuck", and you can calmly untangle the knot. This can involve solving merge-conflicts, cherry-picking commits from other branches, and rebasing.

You can explain how Git hashing works and explain the pros and cons in relation to other version control systems such as SVN and Mercurial.

You can explain and use pre and post hooks.

You understand and can modify configuration in .git/config.

## How do you improve it?

Read ALL the Git manual - ([https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2)) and build prototypes.

Read blogs about people doing weird things to Git (like using it as a database - [https://www.kenneth-truyers.net/2016/10/13/git-nosql-database/](https://www.kenneth-truyers.net/2016/10/13/git-nosql-database/)) 

Try experimenting in Git.

Build your own Git aliases.

Clean a repository's history of all files larger than 200kb.

~/.gitconfig add `autocorrect = -1` turns on autocorrect on your Git commands. So `git statsu` --> `git status` automatically.  :

Install and learn `tig` https://github.com/jonas/tig

Want to obliterate files? use BFG https://rtyley.github.io/bfg-repo-cleaner/

Learn about GLFS - https://git-lfs.github.com/

Commit message:

Add sparse-checkout to git level 2 competency (#102)

competencies/git.md, after:

# Competency - Git

Git is a free and open source distributed version control system designed to handle everything from small to very large projects with speed and efficiency.

## How do you prove it?

You can clone a repo, create a branch, checkout a branch, handle merge conflicts, squash, and push commits.

Can verbally explain Git to someone else and help them learn the Git processes.

You can explain what HEAD, remote, and tags are.

You can explain the difference between the working and staged environments.

You can explain what stashing is and when you should use it. 

You can navigate a Git log and know how to reset to a hash.

Can safely and securely use Git.

Knows the difference between squashing and merging.

Write well formatted and descriptive commit messages.

## How do you improve it?

Read the Git manual - [https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2)

Memorize the basic set of commands - [https://www.git-tower.com/blog/git-cheat-sheet/](https://www.git-tower.com/blog/git-cheat-sheet/)

Git Extras for common use-cases - [https://github.com/tj/git-extras](https://github.com/tj/git-extras)

Read [How to Write a Git Commit Message](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/)

Conventional Commits - [https://www.conventionalcommits.org/](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/)

Bookmark - [https://ohshitgit.com/](https://ohshitgit.com/)

# Competency - Git - Level 2

Have achieved all the things for the basic competency, are capable of solving advanced Git issues.

## How do you prove it?

People come to you and say things like, "I did this merge and now I'm in a tangle of branches and somebody did a force push and now I'm stuck", and you can calmly untangle the knot. This can involve solving merge-conflicts, cherry-picking commits from other branches, and rebasing.

You can explain how Git hashing works and explain the pros and cons in relation to other version control systems such as SVN and Mercurial.

You can explain and use pre and post hooks.

You understand and can modify configuration in .git/config.

You can explain what is sparse checkout, how and when to use it.

## How do you improve it?

Read ALL the Git manual - ([https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2)) and build prototypes.

Read blogs about people doing weird things to Git (like using it as a database - [https://www.kenneth-truyers.net/2016/10/13/git-nosql-database/](https://www.kenneth-truyers.net/2016/10/13/git-nosql-database/)) 

Try experimenting in Git.

Build your own Git aliases.

Clean a repository's history of all files larger than 200kb.

~/.gitconfig add `autocorrect = -1` turns on autocorrect on your Git commands. So `git statsu` --> `git status` automatically.  :

Install and learn `tig` https://github.com/jonas/tig

Want to obliterate files? use BFG https://rtyley.github.io/bfg-repo-cleaner/

Learn about GLFS - https://git-lfs.github.com/
