competencies/language-clojure.md, before:

# Competency - Language Clojure

Clojure is a dynamic, general-purpose programming language, combining the approachability and interactive development of a scripting language with an efficient and robust infrastructure for multithreaded programming. Clojure is a compiled language, yet remains completely dynamic – every feature supported by Clojure is supported at runtime. Clojure provides easy access to the Java frameworks, with optional type hints and type inference, to ensure that calls to Java can avoid reflection.

## Prove It

For code you have submitted, your code reviews get little syntactic corrections.

You can write code from memory without having to look up how you use language specific features.

You can explain to someone the differences between this language and another language.

You can describe the kinds of problem the language solves very well and the problems it's not a great fit for.

You understand packaging paradigms for the language for both publishing and dependency management.

You have a good understanding of the resources and where to go if you're stuck.

You understand how third party libraries are used, accessed, their lifecycle and security implications.

## Improve it

Great Book on clojure, free to read online https://www.braveclojure.com/

Interactive tutorial with flappy bird: https://github.com/SearchSpring/competencies/pull/28/files

Commit message:

language-clojure.md: links; "improve it" resources

competencies/language-clojure.md, after:

# Competency - Language Clojure

Clojure is a dynamic, general-purpose programming language, combining the approachability and interactive development of a scripting language with an efficient and robust infrastructure for multithreaded programming. Clojure is a compiled language, yet remains completely dynamic – every feature supported by Clojure is supported at runtime. Clojure provides easy access to the Java frameworks, with optional type hints and type inference, to ensure that calls to Java can avoid reflection.

Wikipedia: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clojure

Home: https://clojure.org/ (and [Getting Started](https://clojure.org/guides/getting_started))

## Prove It

For code you have submitted, your code reviews get little syntactic corrections.

You can write code from memory without having to look up how you use language specific features.

You can explain to someone the differences between this language and another language.

You can describe the kinds of problem the language solves very well and the problems it's not a great fit for.

You understand packaging paradigms for the language for both publishing and dependency management.

You have a good understanding of the resources and where to go if you're stuck.

You understand how third party libraries are used, accessed, their lifecycle and security implications.

## Improve it

Install and Learn how to use build tool Leiningen: https://leiningen.org/

Great Book on clojure, free to read online https://www.braveclojure.com/

Learn REPL driven development, by using an IDE with an integrated clojure REPL: https://clojure.org/guides/repl/enhancing_your_repl_workflow#editor-integrations

Learn: [ClojureScript](https://clojurescript.org/) and developing with FigWheel: [Flappy Bird Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KZjFVdU8VLI&t=2s)

Learn how to use Clojure Spec: https://clojure.org/guides/spec

Learn clojure core.async and [CSP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Communicating_sequential_processes): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=drmNlZVkUeE
