competencies/slack.md, before:

# Competency - Slack

Slack is an instant messaging platform built for business.  We use it internally to do lots and lots of our communication - so much so, that we hardly ever use email for internal communication.  

There are lots of channels and lots of noise in slack, so it is a good idea to become proficient in this tool. 

Sendwithus values transparency, so as a rule, channels are mostly public and open to everyone and where it makes sense, we try to have conversations in public channels rather than DM'ing.

If there isn't a good channel to have this conversation, consider adding a new channel!

## How do you prove it?

You have uploaded a picture of you to your profile.

You know how to appropriately use @here and @channel, @teams, and @usernames.

You can use a swath of keyboard shortcuts.

You have appropriately set keyword notifications.

You know how to use search and advanced search.

You edit messages appropriately.

You know how to use snippets and posts.

You know how to pin items and what they're useful for.

You have joined all the channels you are interested in.

You have appropriately set notification settings for channels.

Channels you create have a purpose set as part of the creation.

You think about the useful lifespan of a channel and set a reminder in slack to check whether this channel is still useful.

## How do you improve it?

Join the #slack-fu channel and ask questions.

Create your own channel and try things out and see what happens.

Learn keyboard shortcuts: [https://get.slack.help/hc/en-us/articles/201374536-Slack-keyboard-shortcuts](https://get.slack.help/hc/en-us/articles/201374536-Slack-keyboard-shortcuts)

Add an emoji to the slack interface - [https://sendwithus.slack.com/customize/emoji](https://sendwithus.slack.com/customize/emoji)

# Slack (Advanced)

## How do you prove it?

## How do you improve it?

Commit message:

removed company name, added reminders

competencies/slack.md, after:

# Competency - Slack

Slack is an instant messaging platform built for business.  We use it internally to do lots and lots of our communication - so much so, that we hardly ever use email for internal communication.  

There are lots of channels and lots of noise in slack, so it is a good idea to become proficient in this tool. 

We value transparency, so as a rule, channels are mostly public and open to everyone and where it makes sense, we try to have conversations in public channels rather than DM'ing.

If there isn't a good channel to have this conversation, consider adding a new channel!

## How do you prove it?

You have uploaded a picture of you to your profile.

You know how to appropriately use @here and @channel, @teams, and @usernames.

You can use a swath of keyboard shortcuts.

You have appropriately set keyword notifications.

You know how to use search and advanced search.

You edit messages appropriately.

You know how to use snippets and posts.

You know how to pin items and what they're useful for.

You have joined all the channels you are interested in.

You have appropriately set notification settings for channels.

Channels you create have a purpose set as part of the creation.

You know how to use reminders.

You think about the useful lifespan of a channel and set a reminder in slack to check whether this channel is still useful.

## How do you improve it?

Create your own channel and try things out and see what happens.

Learn keyboard shortcuts: [https://get.slack.help/hc/en-us/articles/201374536-Slack-keyboard-shortcuts](https://get.slack.help/hc/en-us/articles/201374536-Slack-keyboard-shortcuts)

Add an emoji to the slack interface - [https://sendwithus.slack.com/customize/emoji](https://sendwithus.slack.com/customize/emoji)

# Slack (Advanced)

## How do you prove it?

## How do you improve it?
