competencies/sql.md, before:

# Competency - SQL

Structured Query Language is a domain-specific language used in programming and designed for managing data held in a relational database management system (RDBMS) such as MySQL or PostgreSQL.

Wikipedia: [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SQL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SQL)

## How do you prove it?

You can demonstrate that you can create a set of sql commands to create a simple database and Create/Read/Update/Delete (CRUD) data.

You can explain the difference between MySQL and SQL.

You can explain the difference between a database and table.

You can explain the difference between CHAR, VARCHAR, and TEXT.

You can explain what queries will go fast, which will go slow, and why.  

You can pull data out and aggregate it for specific business reasons.

You can explain keys, foreign keys, joins, BCNF & Denormalization.


## How do you improve it?

Practice! Start by downloading a database management application such as [Sequel Pro](https://www.sequelpro.com/) for mac or [MySQL Workbench](https://www.mysql.com/products/workbench/) for windows. Of course you can also do everything through the command line! See a list of commonly used commands in this [cheet sheet](https://www.mysqltutorial.org/mysql-cheat-sheet.aspx)

Do the tutorial: [https://www.w3schools.com/sql/](https://www.w3schools.com/sql/) 

Do the postgres specific tutorial: [https://www.tutorialspoint.com/postgresql/index.htm](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/postgresql/index.htm) 

Memorize the cheat sheet: [https://gist.github.com/apolloclark/ea5466d5929e63043dcf](https://gist.github.com/apolloclark/ea5466d5929e63043dcf) 

Have a basic understand of RDBMS concepts: [https://www.tutorialspoint.com/sql/sql-rdbms-concepts.htm](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/sql/sql-rdbms-concepts.htm)

Build a database and do something with it.

Learn how to debug queries and use explain. [https://explain.depesz.com/](https://explain.depesz.com/)

Commit message:

Modifying SQL competency to be about SQL language and not SQL Databases (#76)
* Modifying SQL competency to be about SQL language and not SQL Databases
Added MySQL and Postgresql database competencies

* prefix dbs, added to role

Co-authored-by: Greg Hellings <greg@searchspring.com>
Co-authored-by: codeallthethingz <howdoicontactwill@gmail.com>

competencies/sql.md, after:

# Competency - SQL

Structured Query Language is a domain-specific language used in programming and primarily designed for managing data held in a relational database management system (RDBMS) such as MySQL or PostgreSQL. This competency is geared to the actual SQL language and not SQL relational databases. Complementary to this competency, you should also achieve competency in the RDBMS or other system (systems outside of RDBMS, like Hive and Spark use SQL ) you are using SQL on. Learning the language is only the first step.


Wikipedia: [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SQL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SQL)

## How do you prove it?

You can demonstrate that you can create a set of sql commands to create a simple database and Create/Read/Update/Delete (CRUD) data.

You can explain the difference between databases that use SQL and the language SQL.

You can explain the difference between a database and table.

You can explain the difference between different data types (IE: CHAR, VARCHAR, and TEXT).

You can draw a venn diagram of the different kinds of JOINS in SQL (LEFT,RIGHT,INNER,FULL OUTER)

You can explain how to optimize a query and how to use tools like EXPLAIN or equivalent execution plan tools.

You can pull data out and aggregate it for specific business reasons.

You can explain keys, foreign keys, joins, normalization & denormalization.


## How do you improve it?

Practice! Start by downloading a database management application such as [Sequel Pro](https://www.sequelpro.com/) for mac or [MySQL Workbench](https://www.mysql.com/products/workbench/) for windows. Of course you can also do everything through the command line! See a list of commonly used commands in this [cheet sheet](https://www.mysqltutorial.org/mysql-cheat-sheet.aspx)

Do the tutorial: [https://www.w3schools.com/sql/](https://www.w3schools.com/sql/) 

Build a database and do something with it.

Learn how to debug queries and use explain. [https://explain.depesz.com/](https://explain.depesz.com/)
